[MUSIC]
>> Jafar Husain: So
there's a mapped observable in ten lines.
It's not a lot of code.
>> Jafar Husain: Should we try a filter?
Let's see if you guys can
help me write a filter.
You know how filter works on array?
So filter takes not, it's not called
a projection function it's called
the predicate action,
who cares about the fancy name.
Let's just call it what we all
know it to be, a test function.
It returns true or
false based on the object going in.
And so now her job is to be
a filtered observable and
I'm the source observable, right.
And he's going to call forEach on her and
her job is to make sure
not to give you any numbers
larger than five, okay.
So you're only gonna get numbers
smaller than five, right so
let's try it again, forEach her.
>> Speaker 2: Okay, so but
I'm forEaching a function, right, and
that function is gonna have
that logic built in, right?
>> Jafar Husain: Well, so she's the
observable that is the result of calling
filter on another observable.
So when you call filter on an array,
you get an array back, right?
When you call filter on an observable
you get an observable back.
So let's say you,
I'm the source observable.
I'm just gonna, on next number,
number, number, number.
You filter me and you create her,
she's now a filtered observable
that's holding on to me,
she knows how to talk to me.
And when you foreach over her, she's going
to foreach over me because in order to
give you my filter data, she has to ask
for and that's how she asked for it.
She foreach's over me.
Okay, so let's play it one more time.
Filter right, we're gonna do it live and
I'm like well with acting it out and
then we gonna code it up and
we'll see the correspondence.
So foreach over her.
>> Speaker 2: So
foreach over the observable.
>> Speaker 3: Sorry.
>> Jafar Husain: It's okay.
>> Speaker 3: Foreach.
>> Jafar Husain: Right,
she forEach's over me.
I say, on next one, you're only gonna give
him numbers, larger or smaller than five,
excuse me.
So one.
>> Speaker 3: On next, one.
>> Jafar Husain: On next, seven?
>> Jafar Husain: On next nine?
On next three?
>> Speaker 3: On next three.
>> Jafar Husain: On completed.
>> Speaker 3: On completed.
>> Jafar Husain: So she's only, sorry?
>> Speaker 2: Dispose.
>> Jafar Husain: Well,
you don't call dispose.
When she says to you onCompleted,
you don't have to call dispose.
Why would you call dispose?
She's never gonna call you again, right?
It's her job, that when she says
onCompleted, she cleans up after herself.
So there's no reason for
you to call dispose.
>> Speaker 4: She's gonna call dispose?
>> Jafar Husain: Under the hood, yes.
Technically she calls dispose or
at least does everything that would
happen when you call dispose.
Her job is just to clean
up after herself so
that she's never holding on
to any of his references.
Does that make sense?
So let's try it.
So let's try it now in code, right.
Before this was a mapped observable and
now it's a filtered observable.
So this is the filtered observable.
This is the original source of
observable which we're capturing
by of ourself equals this.
And now when you foreach over
it inside of the on next.
What are we gonna do?
Where there was a map,
we just applied a function to it and
then took the result and
threaded it on through.
But what's different about filter for map?
>> Speaker 3: You're comparing,
there's a test.
>> Jafar Husain: There's a test function.
So we need to take the data,
that I'll on next her, like nine and
we need to run it through
the test function, right?
And then how does she decide
whether to on next him?
>> Speaker 2: If text function
returns true she will on next him,
the thing whatever it is-
>> Students: [LAUGH]
>> Speaker 6: The value.
>> Speaker 2: The value.
>> Jafar Husain: We don't
translate the value, right?
Filter doesn't change values.
It just decides whether or
not to forward them along, right?
So I got a few errors
are probably missing semicolons.
>> Speaker 2: So is that basically what
we wrote when we implemented filter?
>> Jafar Husain: For array, yes.
You did the equivalent for an array.
If you think back to what you did over
an array, you for eached over, right.
And then if it was true,
you ran it, if you go back and
even look at your definition of array
you'll see the correspondence, right?
You for eached over the source, and if it
happened to run through a test function
and returned true,
you would send it along.
In your case, you would put it into
the new array with results.push.
In our case,
we don't we're not accumulating up
data in a big array somewhere.
It's actually a good deal more efficient.
Imagine, if you take one, two, three,
four, and then you map over it, and
then you just add one to everything,
you're creating a whole big
copy of that array in memory.
Not so with observable.
We don't create big copies
of streams in memory,
every single time I give her a value
she doesn't stored anywhere.
She just forwards it on
to you like a hot potato.
So when you create map filter,
when you create this big
expression of observable you know
what you actually really created?
Just a tiny little object graph in memory
of functions holding onto functions,
holding on to functions,
holding on to functions.
It's very little memory compared
to if you map over an observable
with 12,000 items in it, if you map
over an array with 12,000 items in it
you get a whole another
array exactly as long.
This is the notion of
streaming data through, right?
We're streaming,
we're not collecting it up in memory.
We're streaming it through.
So, you want to take this out for a spin?
Let's see if this actually works.
Let's see if we can get, maybe we can
like map mouse positions or something.
Why are we.
>> Speaker 7: I'm sorry, I'm confused
about forEach, because we're declaring
a new function named forEach within
the function definitions here.
And then we're calling salt.forEach
underneath that but the salt.forEach is
a different forEach than the forEach-
>> Jafar Husain: Yes.
>> Speaker 7: In which we're defining.
And then we have _forEach.
So there's three different forEachs?
>> Jafar Husain: Right, well, the _forEach
isn't too important, the whole point of
this whole wrapper object, this wrapper
forEach's job, it's the public forEach.
We all ways call the public forEach,
and it's always the same definition?
All it does is it checks to see whether
you're passing in an observer object or
you're passing in the three call backs.
And it's whole job is just to always
turn it into an observer object.
And then it calls this underscore foreach.
The underscore for each is the one that
we're passing to the constructor and
that way when we define
what observable is,
we're not to worry about the two
different possible overloads.
Maybe they're passing in functions,
maybe they're passing in observers.
We always get to write our
observable definitions,
assuming that what gets passed into
our forEach function is an observer.
So that's the whole purpose
of this function here.
It's just to sanitize the input to
always turn it into an observer.
So when we write new observables.
We only ever need to worry about
observers we don't to worry about.
Maybe the past three callbacks or
maybe the past the observable and so.
>> Speaker 7: That's when we call and
we say self.forEach.
>> Jafar Husain: Yes,
when we say self.for.
Well I want to be clear
when we call self.forEach.
>> Speaker 7: In that context.
>> Jafar Husain: In this context
we're calling the outer foreach
this is the foreach, right.
But then it immediately inside.
We invoke the underscore for each which
is what we pass to the constructor.
This is just an identifier name to
help us understand that I'm just
that I could take I could
delete this foreach right here.
It's just there to help you understand
that that's the definition of the function
right here foreach.
Yeah, question at the back.
>> Speaker 8: What name is there?
>> Jafar Husain: Totally optional.
I can name this blah, blah.
Question in the back.
>> Speaker 9: You might have answered it,
but why are we naming the function we
are passing to the observer [INAUDIBLE].
>> Jafar Husain: Purely for clarity.
Just so you guys know, otherwise
there'd just be a, sort of a function,
without a name floating around here.
It's just so
that you know that the function that
we pass inside of an observable
is the definition of forEach.
That's why I'm naming that function.
Otherwise, if I don't name that function,
I've found in the past,
people kinda get lost.
They're like, what function is this?
Cuz let's face it,
we're dealing with a lot of functions.
We're not dealing with a lot of code.
Notice, there's very little code here,
right.
But we have some nested functions.
So you've got to get, part of this
exercise will be getting really good with
understanding function scope, right,
and what it means in JavaScript.
But as you can see,
it's a pretty powerful technique.
Cuz we haven't written very much code, but
we've written some very
powerful functions.
So let's try this out on a real dom
object and let's see if this works.
Maybe even the first time,
but more importantly,
it's not so much about writing code.
We've already shown you what you
can do with observable, right?
You can build really powerful asynchronous
programs that clean up after themselves.
The point of this exercise is to
actually walk through the code and
see what's happening underneath the hood.
Which will really deepen your
understanding of what's going on when you
use these functions.